Hello everybody and welcome back.
By the end of this lecture we will have created a bevel modifier and adjust the settings so it looks
even better than it did before.
We're going to sharpen up these edges the ribbons of the lampshade itself.
It's really going to make it look much better.
And we'll also have a look at some of the pitfalls that will happen when you do use the bevel modifier.
Let's go find out more okay.
So we're over in a default scene for the moment.
We're going to start with our cube.
And we're also going to do the same thing.
But this time two AUV sphere.
The reason why we're picking the U V sphere is because it's a curved surface and it's made up of single
faces and we'll see what happens when we apply the bevel modifier to that surface as well.
I'm going to shade it smooth and I'm also going to shade smooth our cube because in a moment we will
see that adding the bedroom modifier solves some issues when it comes to shading like this.
Why are we using a bevel modifier.
Well we already know that we can go into edit mode and bevel and edge which is pretty useful.
However that's adding extra geometry and much like the solidify modifier that we're using before adding
levels to your model without actually changing its underlying geometry is a really neat thing to do.
So let's go and add in a bevel modifier so against add modifier we generating additional geometry.
It's going to be a battle and there we go.
Now if I turn onto wireframe mode you will see what's actually happened.
We've added in a single Bevel and as you can see its width is 10 centimeters and one segment if I was
to go ahead and add two segments you can see it smoothes off.
And three four five etc just increases it.
Now if we have a look back at it in shaded we see that we've got a much softer edged cube than we had
before.
And of course we can narrow the width of that.
So we went to nought point nought one.
You'll be a much tighter cube.
Plus again it looks more realistic because very few things in real life have a completely sharp edge
adding the bevel modifier can just add a little bit of X to a model.
However they can fall apart when you go to curved surfaces.
Why would you want to have a bevel modifier to this.
Well let's say it was our lampshade and had a hole in it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to select my vertex on the top.
Press Control and plus to go out a little and delete those vertices.
Okay.
So we've got hold of our model here.
But we can't really add Bevel to anything that doesn't have geometry to it.
So let's go ahead and first add a solidified modifier.
We're going to make that point one thick.
And you can see here it looks a bit mushy as it goes around the edge looks very smooth but doesn't quite
have the right look as far as I'm concerned.
So what we can do is we can add a bevel modifier which will tighten up those edges as you'll see it
all types of them up everywhere.
So let's increase the number of segments so it gets really tight around the corner.
And this width Well we can lower it down but we can also raise it up but it will only go so far and
we adjust the width.
You will see that we don't have much room for movement.
And if we increase the segments it just gets tighter and tighter.
Now you will notice at this point that we start to hit an issue.
I'm going to set that down to point one again.
We've got the rest of our our sphere and its face is being shown live we go into wireframe mode we'll
see exactly what's happening.
For each one of those original edges that made up our sphere Well we've now got a bevel on them.
Is there any way we can limit that.
Well yes if we have a look down at the limits method we've got a couple of options and the best one
to go for here is the angle.
If we go ahead and select that's all look that's much better straight away.
We can actually see that we've lost a lot of extra geometry.
That's perfect.
Let's have a look around this top edge as well whilst we're in wireframe mode and we'll see why the
number of segments coupled with the width why we can't make it any larger.
Well it's going to eat into what's already there.
I'm not quite sure how wide this is below point not five yet.
There we go.
So if I hold down shift I can slowly bring that up and make those edges really really tight and you
won't be able to do that without holding down the shift key.
There we go.
Point nought not nine.
That is quite small.
I won't go into solid shading.
You can actually see that as well.
Now because we've got the bevel modifier applied we can then if we want it to go in and add a subdivision
surface modifier it's a really smooth out the end results as you can see here.
Creates a really nice sharp edge and that's the main reason for creating the bevel modify really does
help us out with objects like this one here.
And of course our lamp.
So now it's time for your challenge okay.
So your challenge.
Use the bevel modifier to tighten up the rims of your lampshade.
And on top of that you sit on the rest of the model as well.
If you think it suits it.
If not then don't go ahead with it.
So go ahead pause a video now and use your Bevel modifier
Okay everybody Welcome back let's go and hop on over its blender and use our before modifier.
Okay so this should be quite straightforward to do with my lampshade selected I'm going to add the bevel
modifier doesn't seem to have been done to much yet and we've got this faceted look over the surface
of our model so we're gonna have to have a closer look at that in a moment.
First of all let's have a look at the number of segments.
I don't want it to be a little bit sharper.
Around the corner at the top adding those extra segments is going to do that.
However if we take a look at the wireframe it's gotten a lot more complex.
In fact we've got three segments per original edge which is ended up with a ton of geometry that we
just don't need Yeah far too many if we have a look at our triangle count.
So I'm going to limit the method by angle.
So basically unless it goes over a certain angle it will not Bevel and the angle is currently 30 degrees
my lower that down to five we start to get some extra geometry keep creeping in.
If I go all the way out to 45 or even further because really only really want the battles at the end
here and at the end at the top here.
So I said that's something like 70.
That's pretty much going to make sure that it only happens around this edge.
That will give us a nice clean crisp edge around our model which is nice and without being hundreds
of thousands of triangles.
OK.
That looks really good.
Now the width isn't going to make too much of a difference for our particular model in this case if
you look at it it isn't very thick.
So having it point one is absolutely fine.
But the number of segments that is critical as we go round this edge also I think that is done and dusted.
OK.
So that's looking pretty good.
The next thing I want to do is just have a quick look at the other parts of our model so I'm going to
turn on the overlays again I'm going to hide my armature I'm going to select.
Well we're not in object mode so it's an object mode.
I'm going to select the first part of our model and add in the bevel modifier.
I can see straightaway.
That's too much I'm going to keep it like that for the moment just up the segments go turn on smooth
shading one more.
Yeah.
Yeah I'm going to leave it three and let's play with the whip.
I think it's going to have to be a lot lot lower
bout their thing that looks pretty good to me.
I'm now going to just add in a subdivision surface afterwards to see if that has a different effect
on the surface of our model.
Mm hmm.
Yes it is having a smoothing effect on the model because this large area here is not reflecting or do
want solidify subdivision surfaces is not reflecting quite how I'd expect it to.
So that looks pretty good.
Oh that's interesting.
I'd completely forgotten that when we extruded this out and pulled it up.
That's what it looked like underneath.
That's pretty cool.
I'm going to leave that notch there.
That might come in useful if I decide to add something like that spring we talked about earlier but
now what I can do now I've got that roughly how I want it is I can select these other parts then select
the upper arm last control and El and then we can link modifiers that's gonna save me having to do all
of this work.
However as we've just seen it's destroyed the mirror modifier for this one but that shouldn't be too
difficult to add back in.
Let's add in the mirror modifier we're going to select the x axis that's fine.
Mirror objects and if I type a mirror here I've named it appropriately so it appears straight away.
Now I'm going to put the mirror modifier at the top of the stack.
Generally that's a good place for it.
Then everything else can come off that.
Now this is the only area here.
I think I have to watch out for.
Look it looks horrible along the bottom here.
So if we come down and then limited by angle that bottom bit's a lot smoother and everything else looks
okay.
There's something funny going on with these joints here.
I think I might have to have a look at the subdivision here instead.
Let's try simple.
Yep.
There we go.
Now we've got a nice transition between them.
Okay.
So I'm going to go ahead select the top one here and inherits from it's against the stems select the
upper arm control El link modifiers so that let's come in said.
That's a simple that looks much much better under the bevel modifier.
I'm going to go and set this to angle.
A lot lot smoother and I probably because of the number of changes going across need to increase the
limit angle.
There we go.
Pops out around 50 degrees looks brilliant Okay.
Brilliant.
There we go.
How are you guys getting on.
I've added the bevel modifier to the arms and the stem and I'm thinking it looks pretty good.
Is and it just a little bit of softness to those really harsh edges.
Please share your work over in the discussions.
I'm really looking forward to seeing how your lamps are coming on and I'll see you all in the next lecture.